Vardhaman College of Engineering was established in 1999. It is affiliated with Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH),and was approved by AICTE, New Delhi. It is accredited by National Board of Accreditation and also by National Assessment and Accreditation Council(3.24/4). Recently UGC,(university grants commission) awarded autonomous status to the college.
It is located about 10 kilometres from Shamshabad, Hyderabad in Telangana, India.
The college code is 'VMEG' .

The prime objective of VCE is to update and modernize the quality of professional education. Its aim is to employ innovative teaching methods which carry an emphasis on fast-changing technological trends. This is to integrate classroom learning with actual work experience in the industry concerned or in a related professional field. The college aims to encourage students from the first year B.Tech itself, to identify suitable work areas and to execute projects of their own choice and interest. The teaching-learning process is carried out through the use of overhead and LCD projectors. Vardhaman boosts facilities such as an extensive computer centre, library, advanced lab for communication skills, internet centre, and spacious seminar halls and Electronic Classrooms.

Established in 1999, Vardhaman College of Engineering is affiliated to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU), Hyderabad, and is approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi.

Accreditation :
1. Vardhaman College of Engineering is affiliated to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTUH), Hyderabad vide Proc.No. [A2/Affi/Vardhaman/394/99-2000] dated 11 July, 2000. It received permanent affiliation from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad from the academic year 2009 -2010 and valid upto 2018-19.
2. Vardhaman College of Engineering is approved by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi vide letter no [F.No.730-50-298(E)/ET/99] dated 05 August, 1999.


VCE enjoys the geographical advantage as it is well connected by air, rail, and road, the Hyderabad international airport at Shamshabad is just a 30-minute drive, and the college campus is close to Bangalore highway (NH-7) making it accessible to several important centers in and around the city. A ten-minute drive from the college campus reaches out to the outer ring road that connects Shamshabad airport to the city.


The vision of the college is to be a pioneer institute and leader in engineering education to address societal needs through education and practice.

The mission of the college is to:
 To adopt innovative student-centric learning methods
 To enhance professional and entrepreneurial skills through industry-institute interaction
 To train the students to meet the dynamic needs of the society
 To promote research and continuing education.


Dr. T. Vijender Reddy, an Orthopedic Surgeon specialized in joint replacements, is the Chairman of the College.
Mr. T. Upender Reddy, a Mechanical Engineer, is the Secretary of the Organization.
Mr. M. Rajasekar Reddy, Vice-Chairman, is an educationist by profession.
Mr. E. Prabhakar Reddy, Treasurer and a businessman.
Dr. JVR Ravindra is the principal of the college.



Bachelor's Degree offerings:
1. B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering(240 members)
2. B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering(Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning)(60 members)
3. B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering(240 members)
4. B.Tech in Information Technology(180 members)
5. B.Tech in Electrical and Electronics Engineering(60 members)
6. B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering(60 members)
7. B.Tech in Civil Engineering(60 members).

Master's program options:
1. M.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering(18 members)
2. M.Tech in Power Electronics and Electrical Drives(18 members)
3. M.Tech in Digital Electronics and Communication Systems(18 members)
4. M. Tech in Structural Engineering(18 members)
5. M. Tech in Engineering Design(18 members)
6. MBA in Master of Business Administration(60 members).


Names of the department head are:
1. CSE- Dr. RajaniKanth Aluvalu
2. IT- Dr. V Muni Sekhar
3. ECE- Dr. G.A.E Satish Kumar
4. EEE- Dr.N Kiran Kumar
5. ME- Dr. P. Srinivasa Rao
6. CE- Dr. G. MALLIKARJUNA RAO
7. Freshman Engineering- Dr. D. Srinivas Reddy
8. MBA- Dr. V Sreehari.


Computer Science and Engineering (CSE):

The field of Computer Science and Engineering has been pushing the envelope of almost all other disciplines, which use computing as a fundamental means of inquiry and tool for discovery. Computer Science and Engineering offers exciting, intellectually challenging, and rapidly growing career opportunities. It is the heart of where the action is: whether this means intelligent game playing, mobile applications, smart robots, cloud computing, data security, social networks, or bioinformatics.

The HOD of the CSE department is Dr. RajaniKanth Aluvalu, a senior Professor with vast teaching experience spanning nearly fifteen years.

Computer Science and Engineering program has been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) till 2021.

Professional Societies
The college offers many opportunities to get involved in extracurricular activities. Within the department there are three student-run organizations which you can get involved in.

Student Associations of CSE:
The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE)
Computer Engineers Technical Association (CETA).

Our Computer Science and Engineering B. Tech program is accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA), New Delhi under Tier-1 and is valid up to June 2021

Computer Science & Engineering and Information Technology are two of the most rapidly changing areas of technology in today’s society. Therefore, constantly evaluating and updating our programs is critical to their survival and growth. For several years the department has been applying the concepts of continuous program improvement.

CSE has MOU'S with Oracle Academy, Red Hat Academy, AWS Educate, MIR Labs, TIE Hyderabad, Hortonworks University, Ui Path, Qlik Academy, Verispire and ICT Academy. 

Information Technology (IT):

Information Technology has totally changed the facet of the quality of life today, with so many innovative research and development projects impacting everyday life. The scale of achievement is attained through an ability to integrate Computer Technology with Communication Technology.

This course has been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) till the year 2021.

The HOD of IT department is Dr. V Muni Sekhar a senior Professor with a vast teaching experience of 11 years.

The department has made rapid strides in promoting excellence in engineering education by the relentless pursuit of quality in teaching and training, keeping in mind the utility of students for future assignments in industries.

The department has spacious classrooms, an air-conditioned seminar hall, a library, and well-equipped laboratories. The department has dedicated fully air-conditioned computer labs all in a functional network environment. The department offers free high-speed internet facility to students and faculty for their labs and research work.

Student Associations of IT:
The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
Technical Association of Information Technology(TAIT).

The IT department has MOU'S with,
1.Berkadia Services India Private Limited
2. BYJU’S
3. IEEE EPICS
4. Wadhwani Foundation New Entrepreneurship Network
5. NucleusTech
6. Aspiring Minds Assessment Pvt Ltd (AMCAT)
7. Red hat India Private Limited Red Hat Academy Program
8. BERKADIA Joint Training Program s
9. Cisco Networking Academy Faculty and Student Training
10. IBM India Pvt. Ltd 
11. DevmenIT HPSU Academic Agreement
12. Devmen IT
13. Tech Mahindra
14. CoCubes.com
15. IUCEE.

Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE):

The Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering has been playing a vital role in producing quality engineers ever since it was established in the year 1999. The department runs one under graduate program and two post graduate programs to cater to the ever – changing needs of technical excellence in all areas of Electronics and Communication Engineering such as VLSI Design, Embedded Systems, Telecommunications, Signal Processing etc. 

The HOD of ECE department is Dr. G.A.E Satish Kumar having vast teaching experience and ably supported by highly qualified faculty with an unparallel level of expertise in their field. The Department constitutes 10 Professors, 12 Associate Professors and 30 Assistant Professors.

The UG Program has been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) till the year 2021.

Keeping in mind the great potential and demand for new communication technologies, the department aims at imparting its students with the latest knowledge in the field. To accomplish this, the department has well stocked laboratories housing various modern equipments and special software packages to enable the students to keep pace with the fast changing technology.

Some of the labs of ECE department are:
1.  Electronic Devices and Circuits Lab
2.  Simulation Lab (MATLAB, LABVIEW) 
3.  Pulse and Digital Circuits Lab 
4.  Electronic Circuit Analysis Lab
5.  IC Applications Lab 
6.  Microprocessors and Interfacing Lab
7.  Analog Communications Lab 
8.  Microwave Engineering and Digital Communications Lab 
9.  Digital Signal Processing Lab
10. Embedded Systems Lab
11. VLSI Design Lab.

In addition to the traditional labs, the department has also established the following Centers of excellence viz,
1.  Center of Excellence in Cadence VLSI Design 
2.  Center of Excellence in NI LabVIEW Academy 
3.  Center for Advanced Signal Processing 
4.  Center for RF and Microwave Simulation.

The Department of ECE is having professional society memberships like IEEE, IETE, ISTE, IE (India) etc., and actively participates in conducting various events in association with the above mentioned professional bodies periodically.

The Department also has its own technical association, the VIVECA (Viable Innovators of Vardhaman Electronics and Communication Engineers Association) comprising of the faculty members and the student members. It organizes the co-curricular and extracurricular activities for the students in order to sharpen their creativity. The association periodically conducts quiz programs, seminars and group discussions and so on to promote their professional interest and make them aware of the latest technology and its advances.

The Department of ECE has an excellent placement record. The Department nurtures students to enhance leadership skills, technical skills, and management abilities applicable to needs of Industries. Students have obtained prestigious placements with leading companies such as TCS, Infosys, Robert Bosch, CSC, Tech Mahindra, TekSystems, Flipkart, Mphasis, Redpine Signals, Oracle, Polaris, Covergys, NTT DATA etc. A few are pursuing their higher studies at prestigious institutions in India and abroad as well. Alumni of ECE Department of VCE occupy key positions in industry and are successful as entrepreneurs.

Faculty are encouraged to take independent initiatives with collective responsibility in all the relevant academic and    R & D dimensions like Teaching, Curriculum development, graduate research supervision, Research and Development, continuing education or organization of conferences / workshops, symposia etc. They have ample freedom to associate as members of team with other faculty, research engineers or with faculty in interdisciplinary areas.

Student Associations of ECE:
The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
IETE Student Forum (ISF)
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE).

Electrical and Electronics Engineering (EEE):

Today, Electrical Engineering is at the forefront of the newest technology. The discipline has moved beyond wires and circuits into cutting-edge technology.

The HOD of EEE department is Dr.N Kiran Kumar, with vast Teaching experience and is ably supported by 37 faculty members maintaining 1:15 ratio out of which 11 are with Ph. D qualification and 26 are with P.G. qualification. In addition, the department is supported by 10 Non-teaching staff.

This course has been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) till the year 2021.

The department has very well established Air-Conditioned Laboratories with sophisticated equipment supplementing the academic needs of the students. Some of the laboratories are:

1.Basic Electrical Engineering Laboratory 
2. Electrical Circuits Laboratory 
3.Control Systems Laboratory
4. Electrical Machines Laboratory
5. Power Electronics Laboratory
6. Power Systems Lab Laboratory
7. Electrical Measurements Laboratory
8. High Voltage Laboratory
9. Power Semi Conductor Drives Laboratory
10. Project Laboratory
11. Research Laboratory.

Electrical Technical Association (ETA) is a student organisation for conducting career developing, interpersonal and intrapersonal skills for students. It organizes Seminars, Quiz Programmes, Industrial Visits, Paper Contests, Group Discussions, Guest Lectures, Career Guidance, Games etc under its auspices.

The students are encouraged to present papers and participate in seminars conducted in IITs, NITs and other engineering colleges. Industrial tours are arranged for students to familiarise exposure to industries.

IEEE Student chapter and ISTE chapter are formed. Numerous academic activities are conducted under the auspices of these chapters. Two IEEE journals are subscribed, in addition to the digital access for all journals. Alumni Chapter is in existence. The department interacts with them and gets feedback with regard to academic, placements etc. matters. Their suggestions are taken into consideration in various developmental activities of the department.

Student Associations of EEE:
The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE)
Electrical Technical Association (ETA).

Mechanical Engineering (ME):

There is a multitude of Mechanical Engineering advancements happening in the world’s workshop, so with the standard of engineering consistently rising, mechanical engineering is creating ripples in the technology world.

The HOD of ME department is Dr. P. Srinivasa Rao. Mechanical Engineering is a fast growing discipline in tune with the demands in the core areas of infrastructure and Manufacturing. The department has well equipped laboratories as per university norms with an emphasis on practical approach and skills for an outcome based learning. The department has well qualified, knowledgeable and dedicated faculty.

Of many engineering disciplines, Mechanical Engineering is the broadest, encompassing a wide variety of engineering fields and many specialties. Although it is commonly assumed that Mechanical Engineers are automotive engineers and Manufacturing Engineers in fact, Mechanical Engineers are employed at enormous range of technical areas including: Acoustics, Air-conditioning, Automatic controls, Engineering Design, Computer-aided Design, Energy Management, Fluid Dynamics, Tribology, Robotics, Biomechanics, and Turbo-machinery, Nanotechnology and Mechatronics etc. Mechanical Engineering is a challenging, rewarding, and highly respected profession.

The goal of  Mechanical Engineering department is to enable students for their entry into the Mechanical Engineering profession, and is designed to meet a carefully planned set of educational objectives. We strive to prepare our students for an uncomparable employability in the area of Mechanical Engineering.

A Technical Association named ‘MESA’ was established with its main objective as exploring new areas of Research and sophisticated smart technologies in industry. To fulfil this objective a series of technical workshops, seminars, technical fests and guest lectures are being conducted every year. The students are encouraged to present papers and participate in various technical events at national level.

This program has been accredited by the National Board of Accreditation (NBA) till the year 2021.

Student Association of Mechanical department are,
1. The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
2. Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
3. Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE)
4. AMERICAN SOCIETY OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
5. TRIBOLOGY SOCIETY OF INDIA
6. SOCIETY of AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERS INDIA
7. IMPROVING The WORLD THROUGH ENGINEERING
8. American Society for Testing and Materials
9. Indian Society for Technical Education
10. American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers.

The MOU'S of ME department are,
SAP University Center of Excellence
Infosys campus Connect
IBM Software Centre of Excellence
Centre for CADENCE VLSI Software (CADENCE)
LabVIEW Software Centre of Excellence for System Design
Indo – US Collaboration for Engineering Education
Cisco Networking Academy
Sun Microsystems
TATA Consultancy Services
Tech Mahindra Limited.

Civil Engineering (CE):

Civil Engineering is one of the broadest and oldest of all the engineering disciplines, extending across multi-technological ecosystems. Civil Engineers plan, design, and supervise the construction of facilities essential to modern life like space satellites and launching facilities, offshore structures, bridges, buildings, tunnels, highways, transit systems, dams, airports, harbors, water supply system and wastewater treatment plants. A civil engineer is responsible for planning and designing a project, constructing the project to the required scale, and maintenance of the project. A civil engineer requires not only a high standard of engineering knowledge but also supervisory and administrative skills.

The HOD of CE department is Dr. G. MALLIKARJUNA RAO.

The infrastructure available in the department facilitates students to develop their skill and knowledge within the framework of curriculum prescribed by the Vardhaman College of Engineering. The department has the following well-equipped laboratories/workshop:

1. Geotechnical Engineering
2. Basic Material Testing
3. Survey
4. Engineering Geology
5. Computer Aided Design
6. Concrete and Highway Material Testing
7. Structures
8. Environmental Engineering
9. Hydraulics and Hydraulic Machinery

The departmental library has over 400 books and reports of student projects . A departmental computer center with sufficient number of computer systems and Internet connections are emanated. Students of final year make use of this facility for their project works. The students and faculty have unlimited access to this computer center.

The department invites eminent personnel from industry and academia to deliver technical talks on emerging areas for the benefit of our students and staff. The department has included eminent persons from academics and industry in the academic advisory council to shore up transition of knowledge as well as consultancy.

Civil Engineering student associations are,
The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
INDIA CONCRETE INSTITUTION (ICI)
INDIAN GEOTECHNICAL SOCIETY (IGS)
AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR CIVIL ENGINEERS (ASCE)
India Chapter of American Concrete Institute 
The Indian Green Building Council.

Freshman Engineering:

Our primary goal as the Department of Freshman Engineering is to prepare dynamic professionals for innovation and to nurture their leadership qualities with the resources required to be successful during the first year of engineering on the campus. The college provides a multitude of activities to the entrants that leads to grooming and holistic development and aids in the successful completion of their first year with zest and zeal.

Our department offers core knowledge in the field of Mathematics, Computational Techniques, Chemistry, Physics, Computer Programming, Data Structures, Engineering Drawing, and Communicative English as well as Introductory Engineering Coursework. The department is well-equipped with Engineering Physics, Engineering Chemistry laboratories. The department also has English Language Communication Skills Lab and Computer Labs for individual use for each and every student.

Our department promotes co-curricular and extra-curricular activities on the campus. The co-curricular activities include debate, essay writing, elocution, games and various other competitions to bring out the leadership qualities, inculcate team-spirit and encourages peer-learning. The extra-curricular activities include playing a musical instrument, art and craft, science exhibitions, dance, photography, dramatics and environmental activities for the overall development of the first year students.

The Department of Freshman Engineering, established in 1999 and the HOD of freshman engineering is Dr. D. Srinivas Reddy, a Senior Professor who has been into the teaching field for more than sixteen years, and ably supported by well qualified and highly dedicated faculty with an unparallel level of expertise in their field.

Student Associations:
The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE)
Computer Engineers Technical Association (CETA).

Master of Business Administration (MBA):

Engineers often become the primary managers of change within an industry. Having already obtained a technical degree, young engineers can quickly progress in their careers if they thoroughly study the aspects of management.

The HOD of MBA department is Dr. V Sreehari with his vast industrial and teaching experience.

Various activities like seminars, group discussions, debates, case studies, and classroom participation form part of the ambitious plans envisaged for these budding managers.


Student Associations of MBA:
The Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE)
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE)
Computer Engineers Technical Association (CETA).

The MOU'S of MBA department are:
SAP University Center of Excellence
Infosys campus Connect
IBM Software Centre of Excellence
Centre for CADENCE VLSI Software (CADENCE)
LabVIEW Software Centre of Excellence for System Design
Indo – US Collaboration for Engineering Education
Cisco Networking Academy
Sun Microsystems
TATA Consultancy Services.

Admission Procedure:
Admission to B.Tech course is done through EAMCET, a common entrance test conducted by the Govt. of Telagana State
70% of the seats are allotted for the merit students on basis of their rank in EAMCET
30% of the seats are under management quota. In addition, diploma holders are admitted into second year B.Tech to the extent of 20% intake based on the merit in ECET, under lateral entry scheme
Admission to MBA is based on the merit in ICET.

Criteria For Admission:
The admission pattern to B. Tech is as follows: 
The minimum qualification for admission to the first year of the B. Tech course is a pass in the Intermediate (10 + 2) conducted by the board of Intermediate Education, Govt. of Telangana State or any other examination recognized as equivalent thereto with Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry as optional subjects.
1. 70 % of the seats are allotted based on the merit in the EAMCET
2. 30 % of the seats are earmarked for Management/NRI candidates
3. In addition to the above, Diploma holders are admitted in the second year of B. Tech to the extent of 20% of intake based on the merit in the ECET, under lateral entry scheme.

The eligibility criteria for admission to following courses of M. Tech is:
1. M.Tech – Digital Electronics and Communication Systems: B.E / B. Tech in ECE branch of Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the Test conducted by JNTU
2. M.Tech – Software Engineering: B.E / B. Tech in CSE / IT branch of Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the Test conducted by JNTU
3. M.Tech – Power Electronics and Electric Drives: B.E / B. Tech in EEE branch of Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the Test conducted by JNTU
4. M. Tech – Embedded Systems: B.E / B. Tech in ECE / EEE / CSE / IT / EIE branch of Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the Test conducted by JNTU
5. M. Tech – Engineering Design: B. E / B. Tech in Mechanical Engg. / Automobile Engg. / Industrial Engg. / Aeronautical Engg. branch of Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the Test conducted by JNTU
6. M. Tech – Structural Engineering: B. E / B. Tech in Civil Engg. / Construction Engg. branch of Engineering with valid GATE score / based on the rank obtained in the Test conducted by JNTU.


Fee Structure:

B.Tech:
Tution Fee- Rs.1,25,000
Misc Fee- Rs.1,500
JNTU Fee- Rs.1,500

M.Tech:
Tution Fee- Rs.28,500 (per semester)
Misc Fee- Rs.1,000
JNTU Fee- Rs.1,500

MBA:
Tution Fee- Rs.43,400
Misc Fee- Rs.1,500
JNTU Fee- Rs.1,500.
	


